Recipe Application

The application is based around the idea of simplifying the process of searching and saving recipes for later. Ideally for new cooks that are looking for new recipes to try, especially if they have dietary restrictions such as requiring food to be vegetarian or gluten-free. 

When first opening the app, the app instructs the user to sign in using either Google or Email which was implemented using Firebase Auth. 

The application is built in Android Studio using XML and Java file in order to manage the layout and functionality of the application. I had multiple XML pages, one for the sign-in, search page, the snippets of each recipe retrieved, and more. Using the Spoonacular API, I was able to retrieve data in JSON format, taking a keyword from the user as an input. Any recipe retrieved could contain the word in some part of their respective information, such as their ingredients, name, or properties. This is then parsed to get the information that relates to different recipes retrieved and displayed in series of cards format. Each of these cards contains an image of the final result and the name of the food. In addition, there is a small heart in the corner which can be clicked on to favorite that specific recipe. If the heart is not full, it has not been favorited. Otherwise, it has been already. They can click on this heart to get the opposite favorite status previously. Each of these cards can then be clicked on (or in this case tapped in) to get a more informative page defined by a XML file, activity_detail_card.xml. 

These favorited recipes can then be seen after clicking on the Favorite Page Button on the home screen in a similar format to the searches (cards) and have the same functionality. You can still click on them to get more information and favorite/unfavorite them using the heart button on top-right corner. These favorited recipes are stored in Firebase Database in order to be retrieved when the user clicks on the Favorite Page Button. Each user's favorited recipes are stored under their specific user id. Hence, sign-in at the beginning is required. This information in the database is updated accordingly whenever the user favorites something new or unfavorites something they have already favorited. 
